Hello everyone. This is
Professor Majed Al-Ghandour
from UCI Division of
Continuing Education.
I'm one of the instructors.
I would like to share with you
those videos practices using
Tableau for your
data science class.
We'll cover a couple of module.
The first one,
which for Course 1,
data visualization for
best practices, module 1.
We'll go ahead and walkthrough
Tableau and tell you about
data preparation
and all the basics
that you need to
start with Tableau.
Let's go ahead and do it.
You open Tableau, when
you open Tableau,
you'll be able to see all
the connection data types.
You can connect it
to a Tableau server,
you can connect it
to Excel, Text file,
JSON file, Microsoft Access,
you can connect it to SAS,
you can connect it to also more.
You can see, you can specify
all the data type that
you're interested
in this case here.
Or you can also go to
SQL Server database engine,
Oracle, Amazon, MySQL.
You can go more as well.
You can see there's a lot of
great database engines and
connection to your data
that you're interested.
Definitely there's a lot
of great set like here.
Let's go ahead and start
working with our text file,
which is a comma separated.
This is the file that we
interested to use it's called
superstore and you can see
it as a comma separated.
Go and click on that,
and give it a couple of second.
The first thing we'll do,
we'll go ahead and
get that sheet.
Because it's only one sheet
you will have it here,
if not you can drag it as
well as you can see there,
if you have a bunch of sheets,
you can drag them as well
and make that connection.
You'll see the superstore,
that's the Excel file.
These are the sheets like
a table we drag them and
make that connections.
When new, the first thing they
will give you only
1,000 records.
What do you need to
do, you need just type
9999 and press "Enter."
When you do that,
you will get the real data
set as you see it here.
It's 9,426.
What you got, you got
exactly the same order
of your sheet.
If you can see there's ABC,
which is text like Category.
You will see that there was
a globe, which is city.
You will see ABC
again, you see hash,
like a numeric, and
so on, another hash.
You can scroll to
the right side,
and you will see
also this symbol.
You'll see Order ID again and
all that good stuff as part
of your spreadsheet.
Very cool things.
You can go to each of
these categories and say,
describe for me how many items
I have, how many members.
Tell you have, from the 9,426,
you have about 17 members
of categories that you
group them as well.
We have appliances, we
have bookstores,
we have computers,
we have labels, we have
papers, and so on,
which is great, nice
of descriptions.
You can go to, for example,
the ABC for the container
and tell you have seven members.
These are all my sets,
9,426, we have all of
these seven members
as you see it there.
You can also go and look
for the departments,
how many department we have?
You get the idea about how you
can looking for
those informations.
You can go to any of these
and you can also hide them.
When you hide them there
no more departments.
Now you can see
department is gone.
You can say show hidden field.
Now the department is enabled.
You will not see it
on your worksheet
when you start designing it.
Definitely, you can bring
it back if you want.
Just go drop it here
again and unhide,
so now the department is back.
You can sort your department,
there's an icon here,
you can click on it.
You can see now we start
sorting either ascending
or descending.
You can always go
and rename the department
to something else.
But usually, we keep it the
same like what you've got there,
so you're not confused about
the original dataset.
You can escape.
There's a lot of
thing you can do.
You can split as well if
you have different names,
first name, last name,
you can do a split,
and you can see those as well.
One of the things
also you can do,
you can order your data.
The data that you see,
you go from the left to the
right. It's categorical.
That's exactly
matching the order
of the data source
in your spreadsheet.
If you go on and say, hey,
change it to from A to Z.
Now we can see the
Category is still
the first one and the last
one is the Unit Price.
If you go back to the original
and you go right side,
Category is the first one and
now the Unit Price as well
that's exactly what we got.
But we can descending.
Now we see the
Category at the end
and Unit Price in the beginning.
It's your call, how you
want to go and work
with these as well.
Definitely you can also filter.
Any filter you like,
so say we don't
interested to go and work
in all of this data.
You can add a filter
in the data source.
Of course, you can also add
a filter in the sheets itself.
That's exactly what we're
going show you later on.
But this is where you
say, I'm interested on,
for example, let's
say for departments.
Let's find the Department
very quick, here we go.
Then you say, I'm
interested only on
the Department of the
technology and say,
"Okay". Then say, "Okay".
Now if you go to
the departments,
now we've dropped from 9,240
something to 2,312 record.
Because you have only
thus technology
that's your interest.
You can see there's a filter.
You can edit that filter.
Then you can go back and you
can remove it or say, hey,
exclude technology,
it's another person
who will manage it.
You can do those, exclude or
include and work like that.
Definitely, it's fun to
go and work with these.
You can do a Wildcard,
you can do Condition,
you can do Top.
Very nice filters,
you can do that.
But you can remove
it and say, "Okay."
Now it's been removed,
you go back to the
original 9,426.
I hope this give you a great
idea starting how you can
connect with your data
sources as we've done.
When you are ready for this,
I'll go right away
to go and save it.
Save As, and let's call
it Demao-Tableau_UCI.
Always I recommend
change this to twbx,
so you include the
data with that.
We'll come back to show you
next steps in the next video.
You save it. Now,
it is already there.
It's being saved,
it's been titled.
With that, we'll
go ahead and stop
the video so we'll connect
you with the next
module. Thank you.